# The Command Line #

<hr>

## The Command Line ##
### What is a command line?
A command line, or terminal, is a text based interface to the system. You are able to enter commands by typing them on the keyboard and feedback will be given to you similarly as text.

### The Shell, Bash ###
Within a terminal you have what is known as a shell. This is a part of the operating system that defines how the terminal will behave and looks after running (or executing) commands for you. There are various shells available but the most common one is called bash which stands for **Bourne again shell** .

- If you want to know which shell you are using -> use `echo $SHELL` in terminal

<hr>

## Basic Navigation ##

`pwd` stands for Print Working Directory. It tells you what your current or present working directory is.

`ls` stands for list. It tells you what is there.

`cd` stands for change directory. It lets you move around in the system.

- There are 2 types of paths we can use, **absolute** and **relative**. At the very top of the structure is what's called the **root** directory. It is denoted by a single slash ( / ). It has subdirectories, they have subdirectories and so on. Files may reside in any of these directories.
- Relative path: A file or directory location relative to where we currently are in the file system.
- Absolute path: A file or directory location in relation to the root of the file system.

### Shortcuts ###
- ~ (tilde) - This is a shortcut for your home directory.
- . (dot) - This is a reference to your current directory. 
- .. (dotdot)- This is a reference to the parent directory. You can use this several times in a path to keep going up the hierarchy. 

<hr>

## More About Files ##

`file` obtain information about what type of file a file or directory is.

`ls -a`List the contents of a directory, including hidden files.

- Everything is a file under Linux, Even directories.
- Linux is an extensionless system, Files can have any extension they like or none at all.
- Linux is case sensitive, Beware of silly typos.

### Common Extentions ###
- file.exe - an executable file, or program.
- file.txt - a plain text file.
- file.png, file.gif, file.jpg - an image.

<hr>

## Manual Pages ##

The manual pages are a set of pages that explain every command available on your system including what they do, the specifics of how you run them and what command line arguments they accept.

`man <command>` Look up the manual page for a particular command.

`man -k <search term>` Do a keyword search for all manual pages containing the given search term.

`/<term>` Within a manual page, perform a search for 'term'

`n` After performing a search within a manual page, select the next found item.

`q` To exit the man pages


<hr>

## File Manipulation ##

`mkdir` Make Directory - ie. Create a directory.

`rmdir` Remove Directory - ie. Delete a directory.

`touch` Create a blank file.

`cp` Copy - ie. Copy a file or directory.

`mv` Move - ie. Move a file or directory (can also be used to rename).

`rm` Remove - ie. Delete a file.

- No undo, The Linux command line does not have an undo feature. Perform destructive actions carefully.
- Command line options, Most commands have many useful command line options. Make sure you skim the man page for new commands so you are familiar with what they can do and what is available.

<hr>

## Cheat Sheet ##

You can find a cheat sheet for a quick reminder of the main concepts involved in using the command line [here](https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/cheatsheet.php)
