# Mindset

## Deliberate Practice

Deliberate practice can be summarized as: Activities designed, typically by a teacher, for the sole purpose of effectively improving specific aspects of an individual’s performance.

### The key ideas behind deliberate practice is that it:

- Pushes you just outside your comfort zone
- Repeated often
- Feedback on results in continuously available
- It's highly demanding mentally
- It's difficult
- It requires good goals

### A wonderful quote by Cal Newport

> The mistake most weak pianists make is playing, not practicing. If you walk into a music hall at a local university, you’ll hear people ‘playing’ by running through their pieces. This is a huge mistake. Strong pianists drill the most difficult parts of their music, rarely, if ever playing through their pieces in entirety.

*The only person who understands your skillset well enough to teach you is you!*

[Source](https://web.archive.org/web/20160616225417/http://www.happybearsoftware.com/upgrade-your-technical-skills-with-deliberate-practice)

<hr>

## Carol Dweck on the Growth Mindset ##

### NOT YET IDEA ###
I can summerize the video in an idea which is that we can grow our brains capacity to learn and solve problems by studying and believing that we can do better next time and not give up. We must always use the expression yet, if you cant solve something or its too hard, just say that I didnt solve it YET! we also need to reward ourselves and other for the effort that is done to keep the progress going and provide more confident. 

[Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve?language=en)

## Angela Lee Duckworth on Grit ##

### Grit: The power of passion and perseverance ###
IQ is not the only thing that seperates the successful from others, one characterstic is the most dominent which is grit, passion and perserverance because it is the thing that drives people to do the best they can in whatever situation they are in, no matter how much knowledge you have or technical abilities. Grit gives more brain growth which affects the whole situation.

[Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_grit_the_power_of_passion_and_perseverance)

## Alain de Botton on Redefining Success ##

### A kinder, gentler philosophy of success ###
This is one of the best lectures I have ever heard, I can summerize it by saying that success differs from a person to another, and in order to be successful you have to aknowledge what is it that you want to success in and try not to compare yourself to another person because theres alot of different variables to the equation, you should also try not to envy other people and dont judge anyone and also in return no one should envy you or judge you in any way. 

[Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/alain_de_botton_a_kinder_gentler_philosophy_of_success)

## Emotional Intelligence ##

After doing the survey I can summerize the result as this, I consider myself very self-aware of myself and my emotions and decision when under pressure or in a difficult situation and I do react after thinking through the outcome in my head, I have a very high self-management respect due to the fact that I keep everything professional and with limits when dealing with others and try not to engage in a disturbed situation depending on the situation ofcourse. I can also consider myself as a socialy-aware person where I can notice the behavious and actions of other and I respond accordingly by the situation which gives a better outcome in the end, but what I might face problems with is that I'm very honest and direct which might hurt others feelings if they are sensitive and emotional and take comments personally.

## Assessing Bias ##

I consider myslef a not Bias person as I always try to be just and consider justice within all myu actions whether I'm dealing with persons, animals, electronics or anything in life, I like the idea of equality and how everything can be anything depending on how hard you work or how smart you are or how funny you are, anything you are good at can make something out of you, with this concept everything can go smoothly without any hatered or bad feelings, how much you give is how much you get.
