# SQL #

SQL stands for Structured Query Language and simply put, it’s a search language for you to instruct a
database about what information you’d like retrieved from it.

## SELECT ##

Note that each query needs to end in a semi-colon. for example: 
- SELECT 'We are just getting started.';
- SELECT 2 + 3;

## FROM ##

SELECT [stuff you want to select] FROM [the table that it is in];

## * Splat ##

Sometimes it’s annoying to have to list out all the columns that you want to fetch. If yousimply want all the columns available SQL has the * shortcut. The * is called a “splat” and is a handy, frequently used shortcut to get all columns.

SELECT * FROM [tablename]

## ORDER BY ##

By default results are returned in the order that they’re stored in the database. But sometimes you’ll want to sort them differently. You can do that with the “ORDER BY” command at the end of your queries as shown in the expanded version of our SQL template here

SELECT [stuff you want to select] FROM [the table that it is in] ORDER BY [column you want to order by]

## LIMIT ##

If want to LIMIT the number of results that are returned you can simply use the LIMIT command with a number of rows to LIMIT by.

SELECT * FROM artists LIMIT [Number to Limit By]; For example: SELECT * FROM artists LIMIT 3;

## OFFSET ##

SELECT * FROM artists LIMIT 5 OFFSET [Number of rows to skip]; For example: SELECT * FROM artists LIMIT 5 OFFSET 2;

## psql Schema Shortcuts ##

[Full list of commands here](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/app-psql.html)

## SQL Bolt ##

1. SQL Lesson 1: SELECT queries 101
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable;
```
!()[]

2. SQL Lesson 2: Queries with constraints (Pt. 1)
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition
    AND/OR another_condition
    AND/OR …;
    ```
